



> Elasticsearch is a powerful and widely used search and analytics engine. It is built on top of the 
  Apache Lucene library and is known for its distributed nature, scalability, and real-time search capabilities. 
  Here are some basic terminologies related to Elasticsearch:


> Elasticsearch terminologies
    1.Cluster: A cluster is a collection of one or more Elasticsearch nodes (servers) that work together to 
      provide distributed indexing and search capabilities. It provides fault tolerance and high availability.

    2.Node: A node is an individual server or instance of Elasticsearch that is part of a cluster. 
      Each node contributes to the cluster's performance, stores data, and participates 
      in the distributed indexing and search operations.
    
    3.Index: An index is a logical namespace that acts as a container for storing and organizing related data. 
      It is similar to a database in a relational database management system (RDBMS). 
      You can have multiple indices within a cluster.
    
    4.Document: A document is the basic unit of information in Elasticsearch. It is a JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) object 
      that contains data. Documents are stored within an index and are uniquely identified by a unique ID.
    
    5.Type: In earlier versions of Elasticsearch, an index could have multiple types to differentiate different 
      types of documents within the index. However, starting from Elasticsearch 6.0, types have been deprecated, 
      and each index can have only one type called "_doc".
    
    6.Shard: Elasticsearch divides an index into multiple shards, which are smaller, self-contained units of data. 
      Each shard is an independent index in itself and can be distributed across different nodes in a cluster. 
      Sharding allows Elasticsearch to horizontally scale its data storage and processing capabilities.
    
    7.Replica: Elasticsearch provides the ability to create replicas of shards.
      Replicas are exact copies of the primary shards and serve as backups to ensure data availability and improve read performance. 
      Replicas can be distributed across different nodes to provide fault tolerance.
    
    8.Query: A query is a way to search and retrieve documents from Elasticsearch. Elasticsearch supports a wide range of query types, 
      including simple match queries, term queries, range queries, full-text queries, and more. Queries can be performed 
      on individual fields or across multiple fields.
    
    9.Mapping: Mapping is the process of defining the schema or structure of the documents within an index. 
      It specifies the data types of fields, whether they should be indexed or not, and how they should be analyzed for searching. 
      Elasticsearch can automatically infer mappings, but you can also define custom mappings to have more control over the indexing and searching process.
    
    10. Aggregations: Aggregations in Elasticsearch allow you to perform analytics and statistical operations on your data. 
      They enable you to extract insights and summarize data based on various criteria, such as grouping, filtering, sorting, 
      and calculations.

